[ Silence ]
[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
So what is the story that
is running your life?
Is it something that
happened in your childhood
that made you decide whether
or not your good enough,
smart enough, pretty enough,
strong enough, whatever it is
and are you still living
your life by that story.
Well, joining me today is
transformational trainer
Gabriel Nossovitch.
And he is the company-founder
of several personal
transformation companies
through Latin America,
Mexico, in the United States.
And he has helped people
and businesses transform
their bottom line
by transforming the
power of their story.
Welcome.
>> Gabriel Nossovitch:
Thank you very much.
>> Lisa: So you have
quite a story.
Oh my goodness what
a history you have.
So let's start off by
where did you grow up?
>> Nossovitch: I born
in Argentina in 1964
in a small town called
Villa Maria
and in a very unusual family.
My father was French,
born in France.
His friends were Russian.
My mom was-- her parents
were Italian and so
in my home we spoke all these
languages or people mixed
up all these languages and it
was very unique and interesting.
And I had realized at a
very early age that I was
in a small town where things
were pretty normal for that town
and we were so different.
>> Lisa: Eclectic.
>> Nossovitch: Eclectic.
We were very eclectic.
We ate at different times.
>> Lisa: Yup, so-- and spoke
three different languages.
>> Nossovitch: Yes, so my
friends would come and say,
"What-- what's going
to on here?"
I mean--
>> Lisa: Right,
>> Nossovitch: What language is
that that your grandparents
are speaking?
And why is your father
speaking to them
in a different language
and stuff like that.
>> Lisa: So-- and sometimes the
conversations would start off
in one language and
end in another, right?
>> Nossovitch: Exactly.
>> Lisa: What was the res--
what is the reason for something
like that 'cause I hear
that a lot as well.
>> Nossovitch: Well, you
know, for instance my dad
and his brother were
raised in France.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: And his
parents spoke Russian to them.
But the boys, you know,
my dad and his brother they
went to school in France.
So between then French
was a more--
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Gabriel:-- common or--
but then they spoke
Russian to the parents.
>> Lisa: To the parents.
>> Nossovitch: So that's why
when you're speaking with all
of them, you mix them all up.
>> Lisa: Oh my gosh how funny.
So what is your main language?
>> Nossovitch: Spanish.
>> Lisa: Spanish.
>> Nossovitch: Yes, yes.
>> Lisa: OK, because
that's how you were raised?
>> Nossovitch: Exactly.
And my dad would
speak French to me--
>> Lisa: But you
understand them.
>> Nossovitch:-- but my mom
Spanish and so I spoke Spanish
with my brother and so that's
that was our main language.
>> Lisa: OK, so then you grew
up in Argentina until how long?
>> Nossovitch: Until
I was 8 years old
and then the political
environment was unsafe
for us to stay there.
My father was successful
in business and--
and, you know, was starting
to getting threats
and things like that.
>> Lisa: To your life?
>> Nossovitch: Yes,
being like kidnapped.
And so my father being French
decided it would be a good
opportunity for us to
move to France and--
and learn more about
the French culture.
>> Lisa: Do you remember
those threats at that age?
>> Nossovitch: I do remember my
parents talking about it, yes.
And I remember very clearly
one time we had a discussion
in the car about whether or not
we should make this decision
to move for a few
years until things calm
down in Argentina
to move to France.
>> Lisa: And so were you
ever at any point in--
in fear for your life or--
>> Nossovitch: I wasn't.
>> Lisa: It's just, OK.
You know I always
thought that everything--
>> Lisa: Was good.
>> Nossovitch:-- was good
and exciting and-- and.
So focus was I'm going
to go see a new country.
I'm going to make new friends.
I'm going to learn a new
language or get better
in French 'cause I
could understand it
but I couldn't speak it so well.
>> Lisa: And so then you
moved to France for awhile?
>> Nossovitch: We moved to
Paris, right outside of Paris
and lived there for awhile.
Went to school and--
>> Lisa: Around what age?
>> Nossovitch: 9-- 8 or 9, yeah.
>> Lisa: And I noticed
that you had shared with me
that several times you
were there in France alone
when your parents
were in Argentina.
>> Nossovitch: Well
my mom stayed with us
but my dad would go back to run
his business in Argentina, yes.
>> Lisa: And are there
times that they both leave?
>> Nossovitch: No, no.
>> Lisa: No, OK, so you
weren't there alone.
>> Nossovitch: We
were too young, yeah.
>> Lisa: OK.
So I mean from what
I know about you,
you have such an
adventurous spirit.
And you look at things
as opportunities.
But at what point did you
start to then grow up.
You left that area and?
>> Nossovitch: I left that
area and when I came back
to Argentina I realized how
lucky I was to be exposed
to so many different
perspectives
and a different culture.
And so I think that that's when
my story started shaping up.
I started thinking that I could
make a contribution illuminating
for people that will have
different perspectives.
And that we do things and
think differently according
to where we were brought up
because I came back to Argentina
and some of the assumptions
that my friends--
some of the things
that went unquestioned,
having come from France where
I, you know, lived as an 8,
9 year old boy I had noticed
that they were making
some assumptions
that weren't valid
for me anymore.
>> Lisa: So you-- you have
always been in that situation
where you look at things a
little bit different even the
way that you are raised and
the timing of your life,
in the way that you
moved and so forth.
So your life had that chant--
not a challenge but the
experience of going slightly
against the grain not
fitting into the normal box.
>> Nossovitch: All the time.
>> Lisa: All the time.
>> Nossovitch: Always, Yes.
>> Lisa: That explains things.
So as we're learning more
about you 'cause you really
have been such a pioneer.
So then you moved to-- from
Argentina you moved where?
>> Nossovitch: Well
actually from the small town
in Argentina we actually
had to move--
well we didn't have to but
we moved to Buenos Aires
because that was the only place
where I could get an
education in French.
And the French school system
and the Argentine school system.
So we were simultaneously
learning
in both languages
geography, history,
math, physics, everything.
>> Lisa: Oh my goodness.
And then from there
you went to college,
you stayed in that area?
>> Nossovitch: Then
I went to college.
You know, I went back to the
center of Argentina and went
to college there for
a couple of years.
>> Lisa: And how did you-- did
you, were you supposed to go
into the family business?
Take over your father's
business?
>> Nossovitch: Exactly,
my father wanted me
to takeover his business
with my brother.
He had designed our lives.
My brother would be the engineer
and I would be the accountant.
And he wanted, you know,
the productions manager
and the administrative manager.
>> Lisa: OK so?
>> Nossovitch: And so
I-- I didn't like that.
It felt like so constraining.
>> Lisa: I don't see
you as an accountant.
>> Nossovitch: No.
>> Lisa: But most people would
say while my life is set I could
go ahead and fit right
into that family business.
But--
>> Nossovitch: Right.
>> Lisa: Not you.
>> Nossovitch: Exactly.
No, no, no.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: I felt
like almost choked up
and so I started
a double career.
I started studying
political science
and international relations at
one university and accounting
at a different university
in parallel.
>> Lisa: Just appease
your father?
>> Nossovitch: Just
because I wanted--
I thought that it would be
important to get his approval.
And so in my mind I
had to please them
and still do what I wanted.
>> Lisa: Mm-hmm.
>> Nossovitch: But I was
exhausted because I was going
to school from early in the
morning until late at night
and then having to
study for both.
>> Lisa: Oh my God.
>> Nossovitch: And it was--
it was a draining and tiring.
>> Lisa: So how did that end up?
>> Nossovitch: So I
found at the university
where I was studying political
science I discovered an
opportunity to travel to Japan.
They had a scholarship-- a one
year scholarship to go to Tokyo
and study political
science there
and it was a competitive
scholarship
so I decided I would apply and
study for it and pass the exams.
>> Lisa: What's a
competitive scholarship?
>> Nossovitch: Well-- well
you have to compete for it.
>> Lisa: Compete for it.
OK.
>> Nossovitch: And your covered,
you know, you don't have
to pay tuition in
Japan and all that.
>> Lisa: Interesting, OK.
>> Nossovitch: So and then
they pay for your airfare
and all of this thing.
>> Lisa: So you got that.
>> Nossovitch: So I got
that and so I went to Japan,
lived in Tokyo for a year.
>> Lisa: How old are you now?
>> Nossovitch: I think
19 or 18-- yeah, 19.
>> Lisa: 19.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: OK.
That's wonderful.
I just-- I love the whole
culture that you were raised
in because you by now as a
teenager where most teenagers
in America are completely
lost you've been
to how my countries now we've--
>> Nossovitch: France,
Argentina and Japan.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: Oh actually
and the US we skipped the fact
that I came to the US as an
exchange student when I was 14.
I was the youngest youth
for understanding exchange
student at the time.
They wanted kids to be 15.
>> Lisa: And you
through an understandings
of exchange program.
>> Nossovitch: As an exchange
program where they placed you
with an American family and
then you live with them.
And I at 14, I said
I want to go.
I want to learn English
and I want to experience--
I was fascinated by
the United States.
I had this fascination by
the, you know, this country.
>> Lisa: What was it
that fascinated you?
>> Nossovitch: The influence
that it had in the world.
I mean most of our series
and TV programs and whatnot.
And it felt like there
was a conversation--
strong conversation about
freedom and about rights
and about, you know,
experiencing and experimenting
and taking perspectives and
democracy working really well
with no corruption
and like that.
>> Lisa: Interesting, yeah.
So then OK, you wind
up in Japan.
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: And you
taught English there?
>> Nossovitch: I did.
I did, well actually Spanish,
French and English a little bit.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: Yes, you know,
the language of instruction
at the university where I
was in Tokyo was English.
So I was getting
better and better.
So I, you know, I started
teaching at a language academy.
>> Lisa: And then that obviously
wasn't your end goal though?
>> Nossovitch: No, no I was
like this is a great way
to make money and support
myself and have some extra cash.
>> Lisa: But in the
meantime you were separating
from the family even more?
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: You could have gone
actually any further away.
>> Nossovitch: Exactly,
that's what I always say.
If you think-- if you go
from Argentina and dig a hole
through the center of the
earth, you end up in Japan.
It was like the farthest place
I could go on the planet.
>> Lisa: How did that go
over with your parents?
>> Nossovitch: They
were very supportive.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: They've always
been very, very supportive, yes.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: But yet you made
a statement advice by doing
that that you were not going
to be in the family business.
>> Nossovitch: I never
actually communicated
in that way directly.
I was always in the process
of preparing myself--
>> Lisa: To communicate that?
>> Nossovitch: Well in their
minds I think I was preparing
myself to come back.
It was sort of like go
and explore the world,
gain all the experience
you want,
go to the best schools,
do whatever you want.
>> Nossovitch: And
then come back.
>> Lisa: Experiment and then
we trust that you will comeback
because that's what
you want to do.
>> Nossovitch: So
that didn't happen?
>> Lisa: And that
did not happen, no.
>> Nossovitch: No, I
found that too limiting.
>> Lisa: Well it's interesting
for both the parental
perspective
and also your perspective
that those types
of things don't always work.
You know the-- the best
laid plans of mine.
But OK so then you came back.
>> Nossovitch: I came back to
Argentina and soon realized
that I really wanted to
continue to explore the world.
Georgetown University
had an exchange program
with Sophia University in Japan.
They are both Jesuits Schools.
And I had met this
great Panamanian girl
at Sophia University
who was from Georgetown
and was doing an
exchange program.
And so she encouraged me to come
to Washington D.C. She said you
must come to D.C. You're going
to love D.C. And so I applied
to Georgetown from Japan.
>> Lisa: Oh my goodness.
>> Nossovitch: So going to
Argentina was just a little trip
to go visit my parents because I
was soon accepted at Georgetown.
>> Lisa: Wow, and so then you
decided to come to the US.
>> Nossovitch: Come to the US.
>> Lisa: And now this, and
we're going to circle back
around to how did get this-- you
started on the power of story.
>> Nossovitch: OK, so I--
when I was at Georgetown I
did a Lifespring training.
>> Lisa: Lifespring?
>> Nossovitch: Lifespring.
>> Lisa: And that is
a transformational?
>> Nossovitch: Transformational.
And I remember my roommate
from Georgetown invited me
to his graduation of his
advanced course from Lifespring.
And I walked into a room
and the lights are dimmed
and they seem very--
>> Lisa: Serious.
>> Nossovitch: Serious
but happy, really,
really happy at the same time.
And I noticed that my
roommate had lost--
his voice was hoarse
and I-- I was intrigue.
They asked us to stand in front
of whoever invited us and then,
you know, when they opened
their eyes they give us a hug.
I thought this is strange.
This is like a cult.
>> Lisa: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> Nossovitch: What's
going on in here?
And so I went to the
trainer, curious as I was
and I said I noticed
that Eric lost his voice.
And she looked at me this very--
this woman had a lot
of gravitas, you know.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: She
was like this--
>> Lisa: Very confident.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah,
very confident African-American
big-- big, large woman.
And she said, "And with his
voice, he lost his arrogance."
And I thought oh,
well I'm hooked.
I want to know more about this.
[ Laughter ]
>> Lisa: That was like
hey, "I like these people."
>> Nossovitch: I
like these people.
They're straight
shooters, they're direct.
They tell you like they see it.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Nossovitch: And-- and
then they were very--
and I noticed that these
people are very direct
and very confrontive
in a very loving way.
>> Lisa: Was that not your
experience growing up?
>> Nossovitch: It was but I'd
also seen a lot of the world
where people were
much more, you know,
flowery in their
communication and not so direct.
So I was intrigued.
>> Lisa: So you liked
it, you're hooked
and then you became
a Lifespring Trainer.
>> Nossovitch: Eventually, yes.
>> Lisa: Amazing.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: And then did-- is
that where you learned really
about the power of story in
transformational context?
>> Nossovitch: Yeah, I'd
realized that we're all,
you know, interpreting
all the time
that as human beings we
are constantly looking
at our environment
and making up stories,
interpreting constantly.
And I realized how the
interpretation that we land on
or lands on us really paints
or really shapes the way
that reality ends up
showing up for us.
>> Lisa: So what types of
stories were you running based
on your wonderful
experiences and your travels
and your parents and
all that we've learned
about your colorful
background here.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: What were you running?
What did you learn?
>> Nossovitch: I-- well I was--
I had noticed that I was running
a story that I was blessed
and special because
my grandmother
as a little boy kept telling me
all the time you're an angel.
I took it literally like
I really thought through.
>> Lisa: Wings were
going to spread out.
>> Nossovitch: That
I was going to.
That my mission was to,
you know, spread love
and help other people because
I was here on a mission
because I was an angel.
My grandmother would
actually say things like that.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: As I grew up but
I also I think made up the story
that I was unique in the
sense that, you know,
being in that family
that was so different
from all my friends' families,
being exposed to living
in different countries.
And-- and also I
remember my father saying
that I was stubborn.
But he attributed a
positive quality to it
because he would say you
are so stubborn that sooner
or later you end up
getting what you want.
And I remember that
stuck with me that--
>> Lisa: How do I
get what I want?
>> Nossovitch: Yeah,
eventually, I learned that it's
about persistence but he had--
initially I had it wired
that it was my stubbornness,
my taking that position and
being like I won't, you know,
let go of this until
it happens--
>> Lisa: Mm-hmm.
>> Nossovitch: -- that
kind of intentionality.
>> Lisa: So that's
a great example
of how stories do get through.
I was told I was stubborn
a lot too as a child.
And I've always labeled myself
as being hard headed
and stubborn.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: And-- and
so that was put
but whereas it might
just be the fact that I'd
like to challenge the
truth a little bit.
>> Nossovitch: Exactly, me too.
>> Lisa: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> Nossovitch: I know exactly--
>> Lisa: Right?
>> Nossovitch: Exactly.
>> Lisa: So OK so
that's a good example.
So you were carrying that
story of what did you say?
You said different-- a
little bit self confident.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: In a way--
>> Nossovitch: It-- it generated
some confidence I believe
in myself.
>> Lisa: But anyway did it
not show up in a good way
in you life as arrogance
or something?
>> Nossovitch: You may--
I never actually thought
of it that way as arrogant.
>> Lisa: No.
>> Nossovitch: But, you know, I
was also running other stories.
I was the younger of two
boys and in my experience I--
it felt like my father
favored my brother.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: And
so I-m certain now
that it wasn't a conscious thing
and it's not even
probably the truth.
It's-- my experience
was that I didn't get
as much attention as he did.
And so, you know, I had
stories to validate that.
>> Lisa: That he was
the favorite child.
>> Nossovitch: Thinking that.
>> Lisa: We actually
have a video here
of Gabriel telling his
story about his brother.
Take a look.
>> Nossovitch: When I was 8
years old I remember my dad came
to me and asked me what
I wanted for Christmas.
So at 8 very practically my
parents had already decided
that, you know, I was too old to
believe in Santa Clause, right?
So-- so what did I want
from them for Christmas.
And I actually said that
I wanted a blackboard
and a chalk and--
'cause I remember
that when people are
playing during breaks
at school I would always
draw circles with Ss
and arrows and things like that.
And that was play time for me.
I enjoyed it.
And if I could grab
anybody to listen to my--
to whatever I wanted to
show them then I was happy,
and that was my play, right?
And so when they were
distributing the presents my
brother opens his and
it's this amazing,
beautiful model airplane for
him to build, but not only that,
it had a-- he also
got an engine and one
of those remote control things
to build into the plane.
He was jumping up and down.
He was so excited and--
and I was like, wow,
this is great he
got what he wanted.
I'm so excited for him.
And then, you know, the presents
kept being passed around.
And then I got a box like this.
And my heart rate sped up and I
opened it and suddenly I opened
and I found a model airplane.
And it was not, you
know, 250 pieces.
It was like a hundred pieces
and I just couldn't help
but I guess show my
disappointment in that moment.
And my dad quickly said to me,
"Well, you know, you're younger
than your brother so
this one will be easier
for you to build."
And I didn't want
anybody to know
that because I was
too proud at the time.
I didn't want them to know
that I was just devastated.
So I just-- and but a lot
of things were happening
in my head.
I'm not as smart as my brother.
I'm not as important
as my brother.
What I want doesn't matter, et
cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So what are all those?
Are we all clear?
They're completely made up
stories because what really,
really, really happened
that day.
I got a model airplane to build.
That's what really,
really happened.
Is it not?
That's all that happened,
really.
The rest is whatever
I made up, right?
Stories, a bunch of
stories so, right?
Now this is and I find
this very liberating.
The past has absolutely
no impact.
The only thing that really
has an impact is what?
>> The story.
>> The story you're holding
yourself about what happened.
In fact I find that most human
beings are looking to create
in the future to fix the past
rather than being inspired
about the possibility of being
the conduit for something
that really wants to
manifest on its own.
It wants to self liberate in
the ever present moment of now.
And all I have to do is create
space for it, all right?
When I create that space, when
I'm present to the stories
and I shut the stories and
I create the space for it.
What wants to happen is good.
It is true.
It is beautiful.
It just wants to happen
and I can just provide
the space for it.
>> Lisa: So how did you get
from this wonderful experience
you had of traveling everywhere
and going through Lifespring
to now teaching about story
in corporate environments
such as that?
>> Nossovitch: Well when I
learned and realized the power
of story and in terms of shaping
our lives how what we decide is
true we end up creating
and generating, you know,
like thoughts become things
like my abilities says, right?
Or the law of attraction,
you know?
Whatever it is that we are
focused on we get more of.
So if-- if I'm running a story
called I'm not good enough
or if I have a story that I'm
special then it will generate
different results.
>> Lisa: What about?
>> Nossovitch: The story will
actually validate itself.
>> Lisa: And so how did
that manifest in your life
where that story of yours
special manifest in your life?
>> Nossovitch: Well that I
always refuse to be, you know,
boxed into any kind
of constrained limiting
environment.
I just felt like no, I'm up
to something bigger than this.
>> Lisa: Yet you
were in education.
I mean you went through
college after college.
Those are--
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: Pretty boxed
in environments.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah,
yeah exactly.
SoI got an MBA program
in France.
And-- and it was always
around having to prove myself.
So I was running an unconscious
story that my value came
from other people
approving of me.
So that's a typical one.
I noticed that's a very typical
one of a captain's of industries
and major CEOs that are making
big corporations run, you know?
>> Lisa: They are trying
to prove themselves.
>> Nossovitch: Yes, yes.
And then their families
are falling apart
because in the quest to prove
themselves to be the best,
to be the-- the leader,
to be the, you know,
there are things
are falling off--
>> Lisa: Like Employee relations
and not treating them--
>> Nossovitch: Like the
relationship with their kids.
I mean I can't tell you
how many CEOs I worked
with that had horrible
relationships.
Their kids were, you know, in
drug rehabilitation centers.
>> Lisa: Right, right.
>> Nossovitch: And because,
you know, they worked so much
and that's all coming from their
desire to produce, produce,
produce because that's the
way that these get validated.
>> Lisa: Mm-hmm.
>> Nosovitch: And
it's all unconscious.
So the way I got into
corporate training is, you know,
through the back door because
I started sharing with people
that if they knew what story is
running their lives they could
find out what stories are
blocking their ability
to generate and produce
extraordinary results.
>> Lisa: Wow.
So give me an example
of how that showed
up in-- in someone's life?
>> Nossovitch: Well like
the example I just gave you
like I started talking to a
CEO and he said, you know,
some of the things that are
not working in my life are
which is some-- one
of the questions
that I asked this,
this and that.
My, you know, wife
doesn't trust me anymore.
My son won't relate to me
and I'm about to, you know,
split the company because
I'm not getting along
with my business partner.
And so-- so then
we start exploring.
So what happened?
What-- what are you
telling yourself right now
for why your son is
not speaking to you.
Why is it that your
wife doesn't trust you?
And so by asking those questions
then the story gently comes
to the surface of and
always reveals some incident
that happened prior in life
maybe when they were a child.
>> Lisa: Right, right.
>> Nossovitch: Where
that story got created.
So the way that it happens is
every time that we don't want
to experience an experience
because we find it painful,
instead of liberating
it and experiencing it,
we cover it up with a story.
We explain it to ourselves.
We come up with an
interpretation.
And then we--
>> Lisa: Have an excuse.
>> Nossovitch: Well-- and as
a way to protect ourselves
from the pain of-- and
because we don't want to have
that ever happen again.
So I think that if I understand
what happened and I explained it
to myself I can prevent it
from ever occurring again.
And it has the opposite effect.
>> Lisa: So if someone is in
a crisis or having a meltdown
and having that reoccurring
crisis the same thing over
and over and over again.
>> Nossovitch: It's a pattern.
>> Lisa: It's a pattern of a
story that's running your life.
>> Nossovitch: Yes, most--
most of the time I find
that life will send
back an opportunity
to learn a particular lesson
again and again and again.
And if you resist it and the
story is what resists the
experience then is going to
sent it back again and again.
And that's how we get
into these patterns.
>> Lisa: So I have a friend
who is almost turning 50
and cannot seem to
make his business work.
And he was in the toy industry.
And his excuse was
the toy industry
since the recession failed
and so he is a failure.
And he continues
to sabotage himself
in any new ventures that he has.
Now so it would be true to
say that that's his story.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah, so from
what you said I mean I would
have to talk to him but what--
what is dominant in that
conversation is the environment
is what determines my
possibility for success.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nossovitch: So I would
explore because if he says
because of the recession then I
would go and say so what was it
in your childhood that you
perceived or conditions
that didn't allow
you to succeed.
And so that we take it back
to an earlier time in life
when the story about if the
environment doesn't support it
then I can't succeed.
I'm bound by the
limitations of my conquest.
>> Lisa: Oh my God,
how do you see that?
So let's say your
life for an example.
So you said that you were trying
to prove or please your father.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: How did that show up
in your life with that proving
and pleasing of the story?
>> Nossovitch: Well I
think that I noticed
that every time I
did really well
in school I had a little
bit more attention.
And so I think in my
mind that I made up OK,
I have to be extraordinarily
good and successful
for my father to actually be
there for me and perceive me.
And-- and acknowledge
me and validate me.
>> Lisa: And accept you.
>> Nossovitch: And accept
me because he had a lot
of attention for my brother and
in my mind he didn't see me.
I felt not seen.
But every time I did something
extraordinary then he would
spend-- he would take the
time to say that was great.
So I thought, oh, OK,
so this is how it works.
I need to prove myself to be
worthy of the attention and love
by being extraordinary.
>> Lisa: And now how do you
live your life differently
without that?
>> Nossovitch: Well
I don't think
that I've shut it completely
but I'm aware of it.
And I think that the
first step is always
to become aware of the story.
I still find myself all
the time thinking, oh.
I wanted, you know, I
people are now going
to love me unless
I do really well.
And it's, you know, the more, I
think the more evidence you end
up creating and generating
that destroys the story
or contradicts the story then
the story can be let go off
more easily.
>> Lisa: I wonder I mean can you
ever really truly live your life
without your story because
if you do there's no context
in your life of how else to be.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So how would you live
your life without that story
of having to prove
yourself to any one?
>> Nossovitch: Well I think that
you can re-contextualize it.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: And what I-- what
I've been working on is to--
I've been working on exposing
for people this endless
proving the process.
And that they can actually look
at life as an opportunity to be
in service for a higher purpose
than to be validated
in who they are.
So I think there's
a-- it's maturity--
it's maturity process--
maturing process.
You either-- you're either
playing the game of life
to prove yourself which is to
want to validate your existence
or you can be in
life playing to serve
which ultimately generates
tremendous fulfillment.
And in that case you
are not really looking
to prove yourself.
You're looking for
opportunities to be in service.
>> Lisa: And both I mean that--
the latter is probably
more successful
because you don't
burn your body up.
>> Nossovitch: Exactly, exactly.
>> Lisa: For which
you see a lot.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So let's
take for example
if you're triggered
by somebody else.
So you're-- somebody
does something
that pushes your buttons.
Is that you running your story?
>> Nossovitch: Well I
would say because I noticed
that I am triggered by
my children, you know,
as a father all this
stuff that is unresolved
for me leads up t to be.
>> Lisa: Oh yeah, comes up.
>> Nossovitch: All of
the stuff comes up.
>> Lisa: Yes.
It does.
>> Nossovitch: So all that
it tells me-- so if I--
if I allow myself to fall
in love with the process
of releasing stories
then I have no issue.
When I'm reacting, I realize,
oh that must be an
incompletion for me.
And it is something that is
not complete as an experience.
>> Lisa: All parents should
walk around with a recorder
and record themselves when their
kids are young ad then listen
back and you will hear parents.
>> Nossovitch: It is horrifying.
>> Lisa: It is.
No matter what.
I did that once and I said
something to my daughter
and it echoed off a wall and I'm
like oh my God, that
was my mother.
And it's like you can
hear it and you just go,
"I didn't get rid of that."
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nossovitch: In fact I have
a short story to tell you
about a particular
story that I was
out validating through my son.
He came home and said nobody
loves me, nobody loves me.
He was kicked out
a friend's house.
And I said of course
people love you.
Of course they love you.
And he got really upset
and locked himself
in the walking closet
in his bedroom.
And I said, "Matthew,
get out what's going on?"
He said, "Go away, go away."
So I called our friends
Susan Stiffelman.
>> Lisa: OK, parenting
expert, yes.
>> Nossovitch: Parenting expert
who's a good friend of mine.
I said, "What am I doing wrong?"
And she said, "Gabriel,
why would you be denying
him his experience?"
I was telling him of
course people love you.
And I said, "It's
all a projection.
It's your stuff."
You know you felt not seeing
you are now generating
that he has not felt-- he feels
like you're not seeing
what he's going through.
And so what do I do?
And she coached me beautifully.
She said, "Go and say to
him, Matthew, it must feel
so horrible to experience or
to feel like nobody loves you"
which is completely
validating his experience
without agreeing with it.
>> Lisa: Yeah, right,
right and then but?
>> Nossovitch: And
then he opened the door
and threw himself into my
arms and he said, "Yes."
>> Lisa: And then he realized
of course he is loved.
>> Nossovitch: And then
in a second later he
goes but I am loved.
>> Lisa: Yes, that's true
if you say it that way.
>> Nossovitch: In
the beautiful--
you know, and then I realized,
oh my goodness I am myself
validating my story--
>> Lisa: Through--
>> Nossovitch: Putting
it on to him,
wanting to make it
right for him.
>> Lisa: So if somebody
gets triggered.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: By something
someone else's doing
that isn't usually them.
>> Nossovitch: No.
>> Lisa: It's always you.
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
I mean the reaction
is yours, 100 percent.
So one of the teachings
that in our trainings,
will say life is a series of
completely neutral events.
>> Lisa: Yeah, interesting.
>> Nossovitch: And you bring
in your interpretation
to the event.
Now your reaction to
the event is the result
of whatever stories
you're running
but the event itself
is completely neutral.
>> Lisa: But what if you're
doing-- what if somebody,
you know, robbed you or
somebody did something wrong?
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: You form a
story around that?
>> Nossovitch: Well you're
going to have a reaction, right?
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nossovitch: And it's--
you're going to be triggered.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nossovitch: And its, you
know, your-- because suddenly,
you know, someone violated
you and took something away
from you, you will have a
completely different result
if you're operating out
of complete reactivity
or reaction then you would
if you just went OK,
so what happened.
What were the choices
that I made
that brought me to this point.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Nossovitch: What
is the opportunity
that this provides for me?
How can I move from
here into the future?
How can I let this not run me?
'Cause every time we react to
something we're at the effect
of we'd lose control
or the effect of--
>> Lisa: Our reactions, yeah.
>> Nossovitch: Our
reactions, yeah.
>> Lisa: So you're
really talking
about taking personal
responsibility
and personal examination on
the events that occurring?
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: Almost in neutrality.
>> Nossovitch: In
neutrality, yes.
>> Lisa: Yeah, that's, that--
>> Nossovitch: And
it's beautiful
because the more you can
be grounded in that way
and not interpret the
things are bad or wrong
or the less resistance you
bring to your experience
of life the more
surrendere your are.
The more you participate fully
with whatever life offers,
the greater your
ability to impact the way
that life shows up for you.
>> Lisa: So as we start to
shed our stories we get more
and more expenses.
>> Nossovitch: Yes, absolutely.
>> Lisa: This next
clip shows that.
This is an interview
that Gabriel did.
Take a look at this.
Listen to what he's saying.
>> Nossovitch: And living
into a new set of choices
and then a news story.
For me it has evolved over time.
Initially it felt like in
order to be able to navigate
in this world of stories and not
being held back by the stories.
There was a question
that was always important
to ask ourselves
which was, you know,
what is that I really want?
What's my intent?
At the end of the day so
that I'm not reaction,
I'm actually creating
something rather
than reacting to something.
Over time now it's evolved to,
you know, allowing the vision
to manifest itself through
the space that one provides.
But that's, you know, that
was years later whereas now--
it's not so much
about, you know, forcing
or willing something to be so
in the future but it's more
about precisely allowing
whatever wants--
whatever wants to be released,
to be released for, you know,
and then watching what
happens afterward.
>> And you don't hurt anybody.
>> Nossovitch: Beautiful, yes,
because that's ultimately
ideally your just allow--
you allow yourself to have the
fullness of the experience.
And what appears to happen is
once you have fully experienced
your experience it disappears.
And then there is a spaciousness
where the more spacious you
are the more something wants
to land on you.
There's a vision.
And you suddenly moved deeply
by, you know, doing some good
or some, you know, revealing
some truth or something
that almost chooses you so it
can express itself through you.
So, the more we facilitate
the completion
of whatever experience,
whatever wants
to happen the more
space we have.
You know I have that experience
around certain people.
I go-- I feel how
spacious they are
because they have
room other people
to be aware what they are.
>> That's beautiful.
>> Nossovitch: Right.
And so, the more space we have
and the more space we have
it appears as we expand.
The more spacious we become
then suddenly, the boundaries
of this thinking that we are
this encapsulated ego, you know,
this, you know, bag of flesh--
>> Skin bag.
>> Nossovitch:-- Skin bag
just sort of dissolves.
And then you start
experiencing yourself as that
and that, and that and that.
And so, that's one--
one of the serendipity
and all these beautiful
display starts becoming--
you become it, it becomes you,
vice versa and then it's--
it's just-- there's nothing
to-- nothing is to be wield.
>> Lisa: So, say for example
that someone has a financial set
point or even a weight set point
and they're trying to
get over that set point.
Is that your story?
I mean could you self examine
and say my story is running
my financial set point?
>> Nossovitch: Absolutely.
Yes.
>> Lisa: Really.
>> Nossovitch: You know
the fundamental premise is
that whatever we've
decided about life,
whatever interpretation
was made up we're going
to actively be creating
evidence that it's true.
>> Lisa: It's our job.
>> Nossovitch: Our
job is actually,
the stories have this
self validating inertia?
You know if you think that--
>> Lisa: We have to be right.
>> Nossovitch: We--
I have to be right
about whatever story
I've made up.
So, I could've made up
the story that, you know,
are family doesn't
do things this way
or our family is
poor as a child--
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nossovitch:--
because when I wanted
to get the brand new
shoes my said to me
"Our family can't afford it."
So now, that's now
part of my identity.
I can't afford it as part of
my way of being in the world.
>> Lisa: I see.
>> Nossovitch: And then, it
sets the financial set point.
I mean can't become wealthy
because I would not belong
to this family anymore
unconsciously.
>> Lisa: So, how do
you get rid of that?
>> Nossovitch: Well,
first the awareness
that it's just a story.
And then, the release
process often comes--
I mean there's different
techniques, different ways
but the awareness
is fundamental.
First, you have to be
completely aware of the fact
that it's a made up story.
Secondly, you have to generate
evidence to the contrary
of whatever story
you're running.
So--
>> Lisa: Say take
finances for example.
>> Nossovitch: So with finances
do something that is outside
of your comfort zone
that will generate--
take a risk that would
generate financial success.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: Even
if it's temporarily.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: To break the
evidence that you already have
that this is not
possible for you.
>> Lisa: And see what comes up.
So like go and invest
in one stock.
And get out of the
stock really quick
and make yourself some money--
>> Nossovitch: Some money.
>> Lisa:-- and see what happens.
>> Nossovitch: That's
a tiny little step
that you can take, right?
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: But
also, something else
that you can do is
to go and have heart
to heart conversations
with people
that you have been
actively using to validate
that particular story.
That's so powerful, very
powerful way of undoing stories.
So I have a story that in our
family we're not going to be,
you know, financially
successful then it's OK for me
to have a heart to heart
conversation with my father
and release whatever
interpretation through,
you know, opening up
a new possibility.
>> Lisa: In, you know, in
past decades the common story
in the household was not to talk
about money in around 50s, 60s.
And that was not
the conversation
around the dinner table.
And so, what you're saying now
is to go back to your parents
if they're still alive and say
"You know can we
have a conversation
about finances when
I was young?"
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: And you're
saying to go do that.
>> Nossovitch: To every--
you look around and
look at everybody
that you have consciously
or unconsciously rather been
playing out the story with.
So, if you-- when your son,
your own son came to you
and said "Hey, can we go
on vacation this year?
I'd love or I'd love
to go to Disneyland."
And you say "Well, you
know, we can't afford it."
Then you need to go and have
a heart to heart conversation
with your son and reveal that
you've been running a story.
>> Lisa: That's even better.
Wow. So once you catch
your story it shows
up everywhere in your life.
>> Nossovitch: Everywhere
in your life.
And then the more
people you tell
that you're running a story--
>> Lisa: Yup.
>> Nossovitch:-- the less
the story has a grip on you
because then your son will
hold you accountable to know
that or mom that is not--
>> Lisa: Oh yeah.
>> Nossovitch:-- that is not
true that we can afford it.
And if, you know,
if it really matters
to us we'll make it
happen no matter what.
>> Lisa: Let me ask you about
a story that you told a ship.
And you gave an analogy of
being the-- a ship in your life.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: Can you tell
us a little bit of that?
>> Nossovitch: Yeah sure.
I always talk about, you know,
imagine that you're on a ship
because people come
and say I don't want
to this or that anymore.
I don't want to have a financial
set point or I don't want
to smoke anymore or I
want to lose weight.
And all their goals are
based on resisting something
from their past because
if you say
"I don't want to smoke anymore."
I would ask you "Are
you smoking right now?"
"No." Then don't,
don't smoke anymore.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nossovitch: Right?
But where's the evidence
that you smoke?
Well even if you smoke
five minutes ago,
the evidence is in the past.
>> Lisa: Five minutes ago.
OK.
>> Nossovitch: So,
you're looking backwards
instead of forward.
So the analogy of
the boat is behind--
on the wake of the boat-- the
back of the boat is the past.
The front of the
boat is the future.
When you are declaring
what you want based
on what you don't want, you're
in the back of the boat.
Who's guiding the boat?
Nobody.
>> Lisa: Nobody.
Right.
>> Nossovitch: So, I Invite
people to stand in the front
of the boat and make a
declaration for what could be
in the face of no evidence
rather than being bound by,
you know, the stuff that
they're in resistance
to which comes from their past.
>> Lisa: I heard
a statistic ones,
it was an anti smoking
statistic that a high percentage
of the people who smoke had
an influence an early age
of somebody in their
life that smoked
that they either
watch or admired.
So, if it was aunt or if
it was a family friend,
if it was parent--
>> Nossovitch: Interesting.
>> Lisa: Right.
So, they are repeating
that pattern.
>> Nossovitch: Right.
>> Lisa: So, what they could
do is go back into that path,
find where that story might have
existed, who that person was
and change the present.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
And realize that they've made
an assumption or a connection.
So, they identified success or
identified whatever qualities
that person had with
smoking and undo that because
if your interpretation--
>> Lisa: That's how it works.
>> Nossovitch: But most
importantly I would invite them
to stand in front of the
boat and look to the future.
And instead of wanting to
not smoke to want health
and vitality and healthy
lungs and clean lungs--
>> Lisa: More.
>> Nossovitch:--
and to be able to--
so, if you look in the
future you want to be able
to play soccer with your
child or be able to you know--
>> Lisa: Run a 5K.
>> Nossovitch:-- run a 5K.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nossovitch: Then, that's
your focus is running a 5K
or you know, playing
soccer with your sons
or something like that.
That will cut.
Then you realize while you're
focused on making that happen
that having a cigarette
is not in alignment
with who you declare--
the future that you
declare that you want.
>> Lisa: So you can
stop addictions
by realizing your stories.
So, your story runs
everything, stories.
>> Nossovitch: Right.
>> Lisa: And once you find out
one or two of the major themes
of stories in your life there's
a lot of others but you start
with there's one or two--
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa:-- and you start to
see where they're showing
up in your life and
chip away, add it,
one thing at a time, right?
>> Nossovitch: Exactly, exactly.
>> Lisa: There's a great
quote that you have--
that you talked about turning
complaints into opportunities.
And this is a quote that
we have up here on screen
of really taking all of the
opportunities that you have.
I mean all the complaints
that you have in your life
and these are kind of
what your stories show up.
And turn them into
opportunities.
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: So, what's an example
of a complaint that someone has
that they were turned
into an opportunity.
I mean we just use
smoking for an example.
Money is a good example too.
I don't have enough
money to do something.
>> Nossovitch: Right.
>> Lisa: So how would that get
turned into an opportunity?
>> Nossovitch: Well--
>> Lisa: Oh wait,
I have good one.
I'm sorry.
>> Nossovitch: It's okay.
>> Lisa: -- that I like to do.
Because I hear a lot of people
that call me in my radio show
about coworkers complaining
about coworkers
because they're put
into situation
with people they don't
necessarily choose.
And they don't get along with
because the boss hired them
or the company hired them.
And now, they're
in the situation
where there's supposed-- all be
working towards the common goal
and they don't have
anything in common
with the people they're
working with.
How would they take
that complaint
and turn it into an opportunity?
>> Nossovitch: So
they're saying--
their complaint is "I
don't have anything
in common with these people.
I'm not comfortable with them.
And I can't coordinate
or make anything happen."
>> Lisa: Right.
I can't work with them.
>> Nossovitch: So,
it becomes an excuse.
I can't work with them.
I'm not comfortable.
I'm com-- so, look
at the opportunity.
So, become aware of the fact
that this is a complaint
and complaints, you know,
drain and take energy out.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nossovitch: And look at-- OK.
Now that I realize this is a
complaint, what is the gift
of this diversity
with this group?
Start asking different
questions.
So, what is it going
to call forth?
What is it going
to require of me
to be presented this challenge
right now that will allow me
to have a larger
sense of who I am.
So, if I need to develop my
skills to create cooperation
with people who are very
different then I would never
have the opportunity to realize
that I have that ability,
that skill, unless
I was in a situation
where people don't
seem to be relating
to one another, makes sense.
>> Lisa: So look for the
gift in that other person?
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
Actually, look for what is
it-- calling forth in you?
>> Lisa: In you, right.
>> Nossovitch: That you haven't
yet manifested, that you--
it provide-- it's the raw
material for you to realize
that you're bigger than whatever
it is that you think you are.
>> Lisa: That's a good point,
that you're bigger than that.
>> Nossovitch: That
you're bigger.
So, it-- there are qualities
that if you are complaining
will never be able to--
>> Lisa: Manifest, yeah.
>> Nossovitch: --
manifest within you.
And you won't have the
opportunity to have the taste
of who you are as someone
who has those qualities.
>> Lisa: So somebody is trying
to stand you up at work or show
that they can do a
better job and you are,
in competition with you.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: You want to
look at yourself and say,
"Where might I-be lazy, where
my I be cutting corners."
Is that what you're saying?
>> Nossovitch: Well, I'm--
that's a possibility,
but another possibility
would be, so, who am--
how am I showing up for
this person as a threat
that they feel like
they have to out do me?
Or what are the qualities
that I'm not bringing
into this relationship that
would allow this person to relax
around me rather than
want to compete with me?
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: What are
some of the ways of being
that I'm not really showing
that generate this
situation right now, right?
>> Lisa: So is this what
you teach when you have--
I mentioned transformational
companies
in several different countries.
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: You, what do you
do in those companies?
Are they training companies?
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
They train.
We do several levels
of training.
We start normally with a
group of about 200 people.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nossovitch: And that we have
a five day training then we
invite them to a second
level that is also five days
and then the third level
is a three month project
that they take on as a
group that challenges them
into stepping outside
of their comfort zone
and manifesting something
extraordinary.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nossovitch: So the
groups have done things
like created the largest
braille printing press
and Latin America
for instance or--
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nossovitch: -- they build
orphanages or they build,
you know, rehabilitation
centers or they take, you know,
undocumented kids that
are begging in the streets
and bring them and
education and--
>> Lisa: Huge thing.
>> Nossovitch: They're
huge things, huge things.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nossovitch: I had
one group that raise
in three months 13.8
million dollars.
That's the record.
>> Lisa: Oh my goodness.
>> Nossovitch: That's
the highest.
Yeah.
>> Lisa: And what
they do with that?
>> Nossovitch: Well,
they actually, they--
this is the printing press,
the braille of printing press,
but they-- and they involved
so many corporations
into donating things.
>> Lisa: My goodness.
>> Nossovitch: And they involved
the institute for the blind
and like they had the
largest movie cinema,
what they call it the Company--
>> Lisa: Company.
>> Nossovitch: -- in Mexico
donated 10 years of free movie,
and going to the movie theater
for all of the blind kids.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Nossovitch: And
someone to go with them.
And so we quantify how
much money that is, right?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nossovitch: And what
I found interesting--
I didn't know that blind people
like going to the movies.
>> Lisa: They get to hear
this sensory experience, yeah.
>> Nossovitch: Because
it's a sensory experience.
They love it.
>> Lisa: It's interesting.
I've-- so you take these groups?
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
>> Lisa: And you
give them purpose?
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: And they get to work
together in team building
in order to create
that purpose--
>> Nossovitch: Exactly.
>> Lisa: -- unrelated
to their businesses
and whatever they do in life.
>> Nossovitch: And we
have, so the beauty is
that we'll have a CEO of a
large multinational corporation
in that group and he's an equal
to an 18 year old who is in--
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nossovitch: And then
that CEO will tell me often
that cleaning the
bathrooms of the orphanage,
that they're supporting
and has been one
of the most rewarding
experiences of his life.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
And that you have this
company you have in Argentina?
>> Nossovitch: Argentina?
I sold it.
So I don't know longer
run Argen--
that company in Argentina.
We have a center in Chile and
in Mexico, in Mexico City,
in Guadalajara, and I
start the company here
in the US called
the World Works.
>> Lisa: The World Works.
>> Nossovitch: That operates
in southern California.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nossovitch: And yeah.
>> Lisa: Great.
My goodness.
OK. So another one of
your quotes that you have
and I'm sure that you run these
throughout your companies are
about gratitude.
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: And you have a
big emphasize on gratitude.
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: Tell me what
that means in your life?
>> Nossovitch: You know, I--
if you see yourself as a vessel
or a conduit for life
to manifest through you
as you become spacious when you
give up stories, there is a way
in which you express life by
giving, but there's also a way
in which you received life.
So I always say it's
really important
to open the flood gates in terms
of your generosity and all--
but also open the
gates of gratitude.
And so gratitude is a
way of receiving for me.
>> Lisa: Oh, wonderful.
>> Nossovitch: It's
being present
to what life is offering right
now, being present to the moment
and receiving it,
and acknowledging
and realizing it's a blessing.
So being able to watch a sunset,
being able to look, you know,
to someone's eyes and
appreciate who they are,
and being fully here,
fully present.
>> Lisa: In this moment?
>> Nossovitch: In this moment.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Nossovitch: Right here, right
now, been able to just look
at your beautiful smile.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nossovitch: And
experience the gratitude
in that moment really in my mind
allows you to be able to express
so much more life and be
more joyful like the breath
of your spaciousness
that allows for something
to come through is greater.
>> Lisa: Now, you did a lot
of these and I wasn't there,
but I understand that
you're with Don Miguel Ruiz.
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: And the 20-- the birth
of the 2012, the night of 2012--
>> Nossovitch: Yes.
>> Lisa: -- December 21st.
Yes.
>> Lisa: And where were you?
>> Nossovitch: Teotihuacan, the
pyramids outside of Mexico City.
We actually did a
ceremony in a grotto,
a cave that was down underneath.
>> Lisa: Underneath the pyramid?
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
Well, the-- to the side of the
pyramids, under the ground.
>> Lisa: Oh, OK.
>> Nossovitch: Not right
under the pyramids.
And that we had 500 people
there and we road cast
through the internet
to millions of people.
>> Lisa: Oh my goodness.
>> Nossovitch: And we wanted to
take advantage of the mythology
of that particular day of
the end of the Mayan calendar
because so much of
the wold was focused
on something happening that day.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nossovitch: We wanted
to take that opportunity
to bring awareness in the--
into this possibility of
a collective awakening
of ushering a new way of being
in the world-- the humanity.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Like a celebration.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
And so, we, you know, with
Barbara Marx Hubbard, and,
you know, Stephen Dinan, and we
were connecting all these hubs
around the world
and so we connect it
from all these different centers
around the world to broadcast
to the world about
this possibility,
to affirm that we are
evolving into human beings
that will be more
kind and more--
>> Lisa: Conscious.
>> Nossovitch: -- loving and
conscious and aware and yeah--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Let's take a look
at this footage
from Teotihuacan, Mexico.
[ Applause ]
>> [Background Noise]
This is being a vision
of Don Miguel Ruiz.
has had a [inaudible]
his grandfather told us
that one day the giant will
awaken in Mexico for the world,
and today we're broadcasting
including 2 billion people
for the large [inaudible]
right now.
Well, thanks [inaudible].
[ Applause & Crowd Cheering ]
[ Music ]
>> Lisa: That's a great photo
at the end there of you and--
>> Nossovitch: And Don Miguel.
>> Lisa: -- and Don
Miguel walking
into the pyramid in the sunset.
>> Nossovitch: Don
Miguel, actually, you know,
we talked about generosity
and gratitude.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nossovitch: The way that I've
came into that realization was--
in the conversation with
Don Miguel, he said,
"You know Gabriel,
love is the equilibrium
between generosity
and gratitude."
And I thought, "What
a strange saying."
>> Lisa: Equilibrium
between generosity and--
>> Nossovitch: And gratitude.
I was like-- and
then I realized, "Oh,
so if generosity
is about giving,
gratitude must be
about receiving."
>> Lisa: And that's-- and
love is the equilibrium
between the two.
>> Nossovitch: It is like
that you are the space for--
in between the giving
and the receiving.
And the receiving sometimes
was often receiving the gifts
that life has for you even when
it doesn't appear to be a gift.
And forgiveness-- and then I
realized forgiveness is critical
then, because unless
you forgive,
you're stuck in the resentment.
And you can't really
receive very much anymore.
>> Lisa: That is very
true in many ways.
So, in your gift, what
you have is the ability
to ask these questions to people
to really-and it's not an effort
for you, but to ask
the questions
that get the person
to the next level.
How can we learn how
to ask those questions
or-- in that instance?
>> Nossovitch: OK, so, great.
I think that anything that
is not working in our life,
everything that you're
in resistance to,
anything that you think, "Oh,
this shouldn't be this way."
>> Lisa: That it's
upsetting or causing--
>> Nossovitch: Anything
that is causing an upset.
And the most generic way of
speaking about it is that you're
in resistance to it, right?
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: You don't want
to wait-- you know, you wait,
you don't want to
have more money
and you're in resistance to--
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Nossovitch: -- however
much money you're making.
>> Lisa: People that
upset you, whatever, yeah.
>> Nossovitch: And so, then, ask
yourselves, "What is the story
that I am being right about
such that I'm bringing
into my life this
particular situation?"
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Nossovitch: That's the
first question to ask.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nossovitch: What
is the story--
>> Story.
>> Nossovitch: -- that I'm up
to validating or being right
about by having this
person in my life
or getting this situation
in my life?
And then it's simple.
You answer that question,
you know.
If you're in resistance to,
you know, your husband cheating
on you or your wife,
you know, flirting or.
So, what is the story that
I'm trying to validate?
And then you'll say
to yourself something
like that I can't trust people.
>> Lisa: And that showed
up in my childhood
when, you go back there.
>> Nossovitch: And then you
go into-- so, when did that--
the second step is, "When
did I made that up?"
>> Lisa: Decision
about yourself, right?
>> Nossovitch: "When
did I make that decision
and I now hold it
to be the truth?"
And now recognizing it's
just an interpretation
that I'm constantly searching
and seeking for evidence.
>> Lisa: And so, you can
actually shift and changed
that conversation that you're
having about whatever it was
in the past to the present
time and change that story.
>> Nossovitch: Absolutely.
So-- and the way-- one
of the most direct ways
of changing the story is
by going to the people
that you're using in order
to validate the story
and telling on yourself.
>> Lisa: Wow.
That's powerful.
>> Nossovitch: Telling
them, "You know what?
I am going-- I am here to take
a 100 percent responsibility."
I have been creating this--
>> Lisa: The story.
>> Nossovitch: --
this relationship in a way that
serves me or feeds into a story
that I made up when I
was eight years old."
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Nossovitch: And I'm not
going to that anymore and I want
to invite you into a completely
different relationship.
It's not fair to you.
I apologize and I
don't want to use you
to be right about anything.
>> Lisa: And then you have
an accountably partner
in that person I guess.
>> Nossovitch: Exactly.
And the beauty of it--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Nossovitch: -- is
that the other person,
90 percent of the
time, in my experience,
will actually reveal the story
that they're validating--
>> Lisa: About themselves.
>> Nossovitch: -- about
themselves through you.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
Amazing.
>> Nossovitch: Because
they're like--
they plug into each other.
>> Lisa: You can download
information about this
and you can-- it's a full
audio course and questions.
>> Nossovitch: Yeah.
It's a full audio
course with guiding you
into identifying what the
story is and then guiding you
through the steps to release it.
>> Lisa: That's valuable
right there.
And it's free.
>> Nossovitch: It's free.
>> Lisa: So, you go
to Gabriel's website
which is gabrielnossovitch.com.
Thank you so much
for being here today.
>> Nossovitch: Thank
you so much, Lisa.
>> Lisa: You are such
a pleasure to talk to.
>> Nossovitch: Wonderful.
Thank you.
>> Lisa: It's very simple, yet
very revealing, very revealing.
So, if you would like to
watch a reply of my interview
with Gabriel or share with your
friends, go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]